Summary
A cheat sheet of array methods:

To add/remove elements:

push(...items) – adds items to the end,
pop() – extracts an item from the end,
shift() – extracts an item from the beginning,
unshift(...items) – adds items to the beginning.
splice(pos, deleteCount, ...items) – at index pos delete deleteCount elements and insert items.
slice(start, end) – creates a new array, copies elements from position start till end (not inclusive) into it.
concat(...items) – returns a new array: copies all members of the current one and adds items to it. If any of items is an array, then its elements are taken.
To search among elements:

indexOf/lastIndexOf(item, pos) – look for item starting from position pos, return the index or -1 if not found.
includes(value) – returns true if the array has value, otherwise false.
find/filter(func) – filter elements through the function, return first/all values that make it return true.
findIndex is like find, but returns the index instead of a value.
To iterate over elements:

forEach(func) – calls func for every element, does not return anything.
To transform the array:

map(func) – creates a new array from results of calling func for every element.
sort(func) – sorts the array in-place, then returns it.
reverse() – reverses the array in-place, then returns it.
split/join – convert a string to array and back.
reduce(func, initial) – calculate a single value over the array by calling func for each element and passing an intermediate result between the calls.
Additionally:

Array.isArray(arr) checks arr for being an array.
Please note that methods sort, reverse and splice modify the array itself.

These methods are the most used ones, they cover 99% of use cases. But there are few others:

arr.some(fn)/arr.every(fn) checks the array.

The function fn is called on each element of the array similar to map. If any/all results are true, returns true, otherwise false.

arr.fill(value, start, end) – fills the array with repeating value from index start to end.

arr.copyWithin(target, start, end) – copies its elements from position start till position end into itself, at position target (overwrites existing).

For the full list, see the manual.

From the first sight it may seem that there are so many methods, quite difficult to remember. But actually that’s much easier.

Look through the cheat sheet just to be aware of them. Then solve the tasks of this chapter to practice, so that you have experience with array methods.

Afterwards whenever you need to do something with an array, and you don’t know how – come here, look at the cheat sheet and find the right method. Examples will help you to write it correctly. Soon you’ll automatically remember the methods, without specific efforts from your side.